hi friends
In this video we are going to have an introduction
to pointers
So first let us learn some basic concepts of computer
memory address
So every memory location has an address in a computer
and a pointer is a variable which stores this
address. so we can say a pointer refers to a
memory address
And using this reference we can access the data stored
in this location
And when we talk about this computer memory, it is
linear in nature. that is we can see here, this memory is
organised in a contiguous address space. Here each block
represents one byte of memory
And as we said each block will have a unique
address
For our easy understanding
We have represented the address decimal number but actually computer
memory address is a hexa decimal value
A basic unit of memory is a byte and a
byte consist of eight bits and each bit can either
be zero or one
The entire computer memory is made up of zeros and
ones. and each data type requires a specific amount
of memory
For example character type requires one byte
where as an integer or float requires 4 contiguous
bytes of memory and double requires eight contiguous bytes
So these were some basic concepts and we will learn
more in the coming lessons
So that's all and thank you for watching this video